32 Channel State (Chan St)
Chan St refers to whether any notes are currently active on a given MIDI channel.
Chan St switches on whenever a note is started, and switches off when a Note Off
has been received for each current note on that channel, even if notes are sustained.
33 Mono Pressure (MPress)
This is the same as the MPress control source in the MIDI Control Source list, but is
assigned by entering 33 on the alphanumeric pad when used with a parameter that
takes its values from the Main Control Source list.
34 Bipolar Mono Pressure (BMPress)
This control source generates a control signal of -1 when the value of the control to
which it’s assigned is at its minimum, and +1 when the control is at its maximum.
For example, if you had the MPress control assignment parameter assigned to send
BMPress, and you had Src1 on a program layer’s PITCH page assigned to BMPress,
with its depth parameter set to 1200 cents, then the layer would be transposed
down an octave when no pressure (value 0) was applied to your controller’s keys
(assuming it sends mono pressure). Maximum pressure (value 127) would
transpose the layer up an octave, while a pressure level of 64 would leave the pitch
unchanged.
35 Pitch Wheel Message (PWheel)
The K2600 is hard-wired to respond to this message. Any parameter with PWheel
assigned as its value will be affected when your MIDI controller’s Pitch Wheel is
moved.
36 Bipolar Mod Wheel (Bi-Mwl)
This control source will always respond to MIDI controller 01 (MWheel). Control
source parameters set to this value will generate control signals of -1 when the MIDI
Controller 01 message value is 0, and will generate a control signal of +1 when the
MIDI Controller 01 message is at 127, scaling all values in between. For example,
you might set Src1 on a program layer’s PITCH page to a value of Bi-Mwl, and its
depth parameter to 1200 cents. Then as long as the MWhl control assignment
parameter is set to a value of MWheel, your controller’s Mod Wheel will be bipolar;
in this case it will bend the layer’s pitch down as you move the Mod Wheel toward
minimum, and bend the pitch up as you move the Mod Wheel toward maximum.
37 Absolute Value of Pitch Wheel (AbsPwl)
This control source always responds to movement of your MIDI controller’s Pitch
Wheel, but makes the Pitch Wheel unipolar. Whereas pulling the Pitch Wheel fully
down usually generates a control signal value of -1, this control source generates a
value of +1 when the Pitch Wheel is pulled fully down.
38 Global ASR (GASR2)
When the Globals parameter on the COMMON page is turned on, ASR2 becomes
global, and is labeled GASR2. The functions of ASRs are explained on page 6-42 of
the Musician’s Guide. This control source does not appear in the Control Source list
for parameters whose functions are local.
39 Global FUN2 (GFUN2)
When the Globals parameter on the COMMON page is turned on, FUN2 becomes
global, and is labeled GFUN2. The functions of FUNs are explained in Chapter 17 of
the Musician’s Guide. This control source does not appear in the Control Source list
for parameters whose functions are local.
40 Global LFO (GLFO2)
When the Globals parameter on the COMMON page is turned on, LFO2 becomes
global, and is labeled GLFO2. The functions of LFOs are explained on page 6-40 of
the Musician’s Guide. This control source does not appear in the Control Source list
for parameters whose functions are local.
41 Global LFO Phase (GLFO2ph)
When the Globals parameter on the COMMON page is turned on, LFO2 becomes
global, and is labeled GLFO2. The functions of LFOs are explained on page 6-40 of
the Musician’s Guide. This control source does not appear in the Control Source list
for parameters whose functions are local.
42 Global FUN 4 (GFUN4)
When the Globals parameter on the COMMON page is turned on, FUN 4 becomes
global, and is labeled GFUN4. This control source does not appear in the Control
Source list for parameters whose functions are local.
43 Volume Control (VolCtl)
This control source will always respond to MIDI Controller 07 messages. Assign this
value to a parameter when you want MIDI volume messages to affect the
parameter.
44 Pan Control (PanCtl)
This control source always responds to MIDI Controller 10 messages. Assign this
value to a parameter when you want MIDI pan messages to affect the parameter.
45 Balance Control (BalCtl)
This control source will always respond to MIDI Controller 08 messages. Assign this
value to a parameter when you want MIDI balance messages to affect the
parameter.
46 Channel Count (ChanCnt)
This control source keeps track of the total number of active voice channels (how
many notes are playing), and converts the number into a control signal between 0
and +1. The control signal’s value is 1 when all 48 voice channels are active, and 0
when no voice channels are active.
You can use this control source in several ways. One example is to limit the volume
of each note so that you have a more nearly constant volume regardless of how
many notes you’re playing (this is independent of the effect of attack velocity on
volume). To set this up, you would go to the F4 AMP page in the Program Editor,
and set the Src1 parameter to a value of ChanCnt. Then set the Depth parameter to
a negative value. This will decrease the overall amplitude of each note as you play
more simultaneous notes. This example works best with short-release sounds. It’s
great for an organ program, for example.
Channel count is also useful for controlling the modulation applied to a sound. For
example, you may have a sound that you use both as a lead and for rhythm.
Suppose you want a deep vibrato when you’re soloing, but less vibrato when you’re
playing chords. Set up the vibrato by using LFO1 as the value for the Src2
parameter on the PITCH page in the Program Editor. Set the MinDpt parameter to
72 cts, and the MaxDpt parameter to 12 cts. Then set the value of the DptCtl
parameter to ChanCnt, and You’ll get maximum vibrato depth when only one note
is active. (Channel count outputs a control signal of 0 when no notes are playing, so
with only one note playing, its value is near 0, which causes the DptCtl parameter to
generate a value near its minimum: 72 cents in this case.)
If you want to increase the depth of the vibrato as you increase the number of active
notes, set the value of the MaxDpt parameter higher than that of the MinDpt
parameter.
Note: There are no control sources that correspond to the numeric entries 47—54.
55 Sync State (SyncSt)
This unipolar control source responds to MIDI clock messages received from an
external MIDI device. Sync State switches on (+1) at each clock start, and switches
off (0) with each clock stop.
56 A Clock
This is a unipolar square wave that responds to MIDI clock messages. It switches to
+1 and back to 0 with every clock beat. This control source looks first for externally
received MIDI clock messages, and if none is received, it responds to the K2600’s
internal clock, which is always running. The internal clock speed is set with the
Tempo parameter in Song mode.
57 Negative A Clock (~A Clock)
This is the opposite of A clock, that is, it switches from 0 to +1 with every clock beat
(the square wave is 180 degrees out of phase with that of A Clock).
58 B Clock
beat.
This is similar to A Clock, but it’s bipolar—it switches from +1 to -1 with every clock
59 Negative B Clock (~B Clock)
The opposite of B Clock, this bipolar control source switches from -1 to +1 with
every clock beat (the square wave is 180 degrees out of phase with that of B Clock).
60, 61 Global Phase 1 and 2 (G Phase 1, G Phase 2)
These bipolar global control sources are both rising sawtooth waves that rise from -
1 to +1 with each MIDI clock beat. Like A Clock and B clock, they look for an
external clock signal, and if none is received, they respond to the K2600’s internal
clock.
62, 63 Global Random Variant 1 and 2 (GRandV 1, GRandV 2)
These are also bipolar and global, and generate random control signal values
between -1 and +1 when assigned to a control source parameter. There is a subtle
difference in the randomness of the signals they generate, therefore choosing
between them is a matter of preference.
96 Note State (Note St)
At any moment, any given note is either on or off; this is its Note State. Note State
can be used as a unipolar control source that responds to each note that’s played. It
switches to +1 when the note starts, and stays on as long as the note is held on (by
the sustain pedal, for example), or by holding down the trigger for that note. It
switches to 0 when the note is no longer sustained by any means. For example, if
you play a note, then hold it with the sustain pedal, its Note State is still on (+1)
even if you’ve released the key that triggered the note. As soon as you release the
sustain pedal, the note’s Note State switches to off (0), even if it has a long release
and you can still hear the release section of the note.
97 Key State (Key St)
This is a unipolar control source that responds to the motion of your MIDI source’s
keys (or other note trigger). It switches to +1 when a key is pressed, and switches
to 0 when the key is released. Its effect differs from Note State in that when the key
that switched it on is released, it will switch off even if the note is sustained. If
you’re using a non-keyboard MIDI source, Key State switches to 0 when the
equivalent of a key release is sent.
98 Key Number (KeyNum)
This is a unipolar control source that generates its signal value based on the MIDI
key number of each note triggered. That is, it generates a value of 0 in response to
MIDI key number 0, a value of 64 in response to MIDI key number 64, and so on.
Note that some parameters, such as Enable Sense on the Program Editor Layer
Page, will not accept this parameter. GKeyNum, controller number 129, would be
acceptable however.
99 Bipolar Key Number (BKeyNum)
This is like KeyNum, but generates a signal value of -1 in response to MIDI key
number 0, a value of 0 in response to MIDI key number 64, and a value of +1 in
response to MIDI key number 127.
100 Attack Velocity (AttVel)
This unipolar control source responds to Attack velocity values received at the
K2600’s MIDI In port. Velocity values of 0 cause it to generate a signal value of 0,
while velocity values of 127 will generate a value of +1. All other velocity values
will result in signal values proportionally scaled between 0 and +1. Note that some
parameters, such as Enable Sense on the Program Editor Layer Page, will not accept
this control source. GAttVel, controller number 130, would be acceptable however.
101 Inverse Attack Velocity (InvAttVel)
This is the opposite of AttVel, generating a signal value of 0 in response to attack
velocity values of 127.
102 Polyphonic Pressure (PPress)
This unipolar control source responds to poly pressure (aftertouch) messages
received via MIDI. It generates a signal value scaled from 0 to +1 based on the poly
pressure value range of 0—127.
103 Bipolar Polyphonic Pressure (BPPress)
This is like PPress, but scales its signal value from -1 to +1.
104 Release Velocity (RelVel)
Also unipolar, this control source scales its signal value from 0 to +1 in response to
release velocity values from 0—127.
105 Bipolar Attack Velocity (Bi-AVel)
This is similar to AttVel, but scales its signal values from -1 to +1.
106, 107 Velocity Triggers 1 and 2 (VTRIG1, VTRIG2)
These unipolar control sources are switch controls, that is, they generate signal
values of either 0 or +1. These must be programmed in order to have an effect; their
programming parameters are found on the VTRIG page in the Program Editor.
When a VTRIG’s Sense parameter is set to normal, it switches to +1 when a note
plays at a dynamic level exceeding the dynamic level set for its Level parameter. See
page 6-44 of the Musician’s Guide for more information.
108, 109 Random Variants 1 and 2 (RandV1, RandV2)
These are similar to GRandV1 and GRandV2, but are local, so will affect each
control source parameter independently.
110, 111 ASR1, ASR2
These are programmable envelopes with three segments, Attack, Sustain, and
Release. Their control source signals are unipolar. See page 6-42 of the Musician’s
Guide for a thorough explanation.
112, 113 FUN1, FUN2
These generate their control source signals by combining the control signal values
of two programmable inputs, and performing a mathematical function on the
result. Their control signals can be unipolar or bipolar, depending on the control
sources assigned as their inputs. See page 6-43 of the Musician’s Guide. FUN2
becomes global (GFUN2) when the Globals parameter on the COMMON page in
the Program Editor is set to On.
114 LFO1
LFO1 can be unipolar or bipolar depending on the value set for the Shape
parameter on its programming page. See page 6-40 of the Musician’s Guide.
115 LFO1 Phase (LFO1ph)
This bipolar control source generates it signal based on the cycle of LFO1. When the
phase of LFO1 is 0 degrees, the signal value of LFO1ph is 0. When the phase of
LFO1 is 90 degrees, the signal value of LFO1ph is 1. When the phase of LFO1 is 180
degrees, the signal value of LFO1ph is 0. When the phase of LFO1 is 270 degrees, the
signal value of LFO1ph is -1.
116 LFO2
This functions exactly the same as LFO1, when the Globals parameter is set to Off
(on the COMMON page in the Program Editor). When the Globals parameter is set
to On, LFO2 becomes global (GLFO2).
117 LFO2 Phase (LFO2ph)
This functions exactly the same as LFO1ph, responding to the cycle of LFO2.
118, 119 FUN3, FUN4
These function exactly the same as FUNs 1 and 2, when the Globals parameter is set
to Off (on the COMMON page in the Program Editor). When the Globals parameter
is set to On, FUN4 becomes global (GFUN4).
120 Amplitude Envelope (AMPENV)
This programmable unipolar control source lets you vary the effect of a control
source parameter over time. See page 6-35 of the Musician’s Guide.
121, 122 Envelopes 2 and 3 (ENV2, ENV3)
These are programmed in the same way as AMPENV, but they can be bipolar.
123 Loop State (Loop St)
This unipolar control source switches to +1 when the currently playing sample
reaches its LoopStart point. If you’ve programmed a sound with a User amplitude
envelope, Loop St will always be on (+1) for that sound. See page 14-17 of the
Musician’s Guide for more about sample loops.
124 Sample Playback Rate (PB Rate)
The signal value of this bipolar control source is determined by the sample playback
rate of each note. The playback rate is a function of the amount of transposition
applied to a sample root to play it at the proper pitch for each note. If you trigger a
note where a sample root is assigned, the PB Rate signal value for that note is 0. If
the note is above the sample root, the sample is transposed upward, and its
playback rate is higher than that of the sample root. Consequently the PB Rate
signal value for that note will be positive. If the note is below the sample root, the
PB Rate signal value will be negative.
125 Attack State (Atk State)
This unipolar control source switches to +1 and back to 0 very quickly with each
note start.
126 Release State (Rel State)
This unipolar control source switches to +1 when a note is released, and stays on
until the note has completed its release (faded to silence), then it switches to 0. It
will stay on if a note is sustained, even if its trigger (key, string, whatever) is
released.
127 ON
This generates a constant control signal value of +1.
128 -ON
This generates a constant control signal value of -1 (the numeric entry 128 selects a
value of OFF in the MIDI Control Source list).
129 GKeyNum
Uses the key number (global) to modify whatever it is patched into. Higher notes
will have a very different effect than will lower notes. Users can use this new Source
to control any K2600 parameters, or to scale amplitude or pitch.
130 GAttVel
This is updated every time you strike another key (kind of a multi- trigger function).
In addition to enabling (triggering) layers from any controller (works like an on/off
switch), you can set the assigned controller’s threshold (value, or range of values
from 0-127), thus defining the controller’s active range where it will enable the
layer.
For example, you could create a 32-layer nylon guitar in which each layer is
assigned to a different VAST algorithm and each layer is enabled by discrete narrow
velocity ranges. This would produce 32 different sounding layers with 32 cross
switch points emulating a picked guitar where no two attacks are exactly alike. If
the layers' velocity ranges were very close together yet not overlapping, you could
create very subtle nonrepeating changes. This kind of power usually eludes most
sample playback devices, as this technique uses only one layer of polyphony, due to
cross switching versus cross fading.
131, 132 GHiKey, GLoKey
These control sources work the same as GKeyNum except that they track the
highest key currently held and the lowest key currently held respectively. By using
one of these as the only source for pitch tracking, you can create monophonic-like
layers within a polyphonic program.